{"ETAT403":[{"paperTitle":"Mechatronics","paperCredits":3,"paperUnits":[{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Mechanical  Actuating  Systems","unitDetails":"Types of motion, Degrees of freedom, constraints, Kinematic Chains, Cam, Gear and gear trains, Ratchet and pawl Belt drive, chain drive, Bearing, pre loading. Hydraulic & Pneumatic Actuation Systems: Fluid power systems, hydraulic systems, Pneumatic systems, system structure and signal flow, hydraulic pumps and Pressure Control Valves and regulation, air compressors and treatment, Cylinders, Direction Control Valves, Process control valves, Rotary Actuators, Accumulators, Amplifiers, and Pneumatic Sequencing Problems."}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Electrical  Actuation  Systems","unitDetails":"Switching Devices, Mechanical Switches – SPST, SPDT, DPDT, keypads; Relays, Electronic sensors, Diodes, Thyristors, Transistors, solenoid operating Valve, Solenoid Operated Hydraulic and Pneumatic Valves, Electro-Pneumatic Sequencing Problems. Control of DC Motors, Permanent Magnet DC Motors, Bush less Permanent Magnet DC Motors, AC Motors and speed controls, Stepper Motors and Controls, Servo Motors. Digital Electronics and systems: Number Systems, Binary Mathematics, Boolean Algebra, Gates and Integrated Circuits Like 7408, 7402, Karnaugh Maps, Application of Logic Gates as: Parity Generators, Digital Comparators, BCD to Decimal Decoders, Flip Flops and applications, sequential logic, Microprocessor and microcontrollers, programming, instruction set, assembly language, C programming for Intel 8051 / 8082 micro-controller. [T1] [T2]"}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Sensors,  transducers  and  application","unitDetails":"Performance Terminology, Static and Dynamic Characteristics, Displacement, Position and Proximity Sensors, Potentiometer Sensors, Strain Gauge Element, LVDT, Optical Encoders, Pneumatic Sensors, Hall Effect Sensors, Tachogenerators, Strain Gauge Load Cell, Thermostats, Photo Darlington. Interfacing Sensors in Mechatronic System. System Interfacing and data acquisition: Data acquisition systems, Data loggers, SCADA, Interfacing requirements, Buffers, Darlington Pair, Handshaking, Serial and Parallel Port Interfacing, Peripheral Interface Adapters, Analog to Digital Conversion, Digital To Analog Conversion, Sample and Hold Amplifiers, Multiplexers, Time Division Multiplexing, Digital Signal Processing, Pulse Modulation, Component Interconnection and Impedance Matching, Interfacing Motor drives. Electrical power supply and protection. Introduction to signal conditioning: Signal Conditioning Processes, Inverting Amplifiers, Non Inverting Amplifiers, Summing, Integrating, Differential, Logarithmic Amplifiers, Comparators, Amplifiers Error, Filtering, wheatstone Bridge, Temperature Compensation, Thermocouple Compensation,"}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Programmable logic controllers","unitDetails":"Programmable logic controllers (PLC) Structure, Input / Output Processing, principles of operation, PLC versus computer, Programming Languages, programming using Ladder Diagrams, Logic Functions, Latching, Sequencing, Timers, Internal Relays And Counters, Shift Registers, Master and Jump Controls, Jumps, Data Movement, Code Conversion, Data handling and manipulation, selecting a PLC. INSTRUCTIONS TO PAPER SETTERS: MAXIMUM MARKS: 75 1. Question No. 1 should be compulsory and cover the entire syllabus. This question should have objective or short answer type questions. It should be of 25 marks. 2. Apart from Question No. 1, rest of the paper shall consist of four units as per the syllabus. Every unit should have two questions. However, student may be asked to attempt only 1 question from each unit. Each question should be of 12.5 marks 62 Scheme and Syllabi for B. Tech-Mechanical and Automation Engineering, 1st year (Common to all branches) w.e.f batch 2014-15 and (2nd, 3rd & 4th years) w.e.f batch 2013-14 approved in the 22nd BOS of USET on 30th June, 2014 and approved in the 37th AC Sub Committee Meeting held on 10th July, 2014. Case studies: Mechatronic approach to design, Boat Auto pilot, high speed tilting train, automatic car park system, coin counter, engine management system, autonomous mobile system, antilock brake system control, Auto-Focus Camera, Printer, Domestic Washing Machine, Optical Mark Reader, Bar Code Reader and Pick and Place robot Arm, Using PLC for extending and retracting a pneumatic piston and two pneumatic pistons in different combinations, control of vibrating machine, control of process tank, control of conveyor motor, detecting, sorting and packaging unit."}}]}]}