{"ETEL305":[{"paperTitle":"Signals and Systems","paperCredits":4,"paperUnits":[{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Continuous And Discrete Time Signals","unitDetails":"Definition of signal, Classification of Signals: Periodic and Aperiodic, Even and Odd, Energy and Power signals, Deterministic and Random signals. Singular Functions: Unit impulse, unit step, unit ramp, complex and exponential, parabolic, Signum, Sinc etc. Properties of unit impulse in continuous and discrete domain, properties of basic functions w.r.t. orthogonality. Transformation in independent variable of signals: Time scaling, Time shifting, Amplitude scaling. Representation of signals in terms of singular function and orthogonal functions. Systems: Definition of system, types of systems: Linear and nonlinear, static and dynamic, causal and noncausal, time variant and invariant, invertible and non-invertible, stable and non-stable. System described by differential equation and difference equation. LTI System: Properties of LTI System, impulse response, convolution and its properties in continuous and discrete domain with proof. Linear convolution in continuous and discrete domain using graphical method, using general formula and matrix method."}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Fourier  series","unitDetails":"Need and application of Fourier series. Fourier series representation of continuous time and discrete time signals using exponential method and trigonometric method. Magnitude and Phase spectrum of signals. Fourier Transform: Properties of the Continuous time and discrete time Fourier Transform. Magnitude and Phase representations of frequency response of LTI systems Analysis and characterization of LTI systems using Differential Equations and Difference equation."}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Magnitude- Phase Representation of Frequency Response  of LTI System","unitDetails":"Linear phase, concept of phase delay and group delay. All pass system. Laplace Transform: Properties of Laplace transform, concept of ROC and its properties. Computation of impulse response & transfer function using Laplace transform. Inverse-Laplace transforms. Computation of impulse response, total response (zero state and zero input response) & transfer function using Laplace transform."}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Sampling","unitDetails":": Sampling of low pass signals, ideal sampling, Aliasing effect, Nyquist rate, reconstruction of signal. Sampling of discrete time signals. Z Transform: Region of convergence – properties of ROC, Properties of Z-transform. Inverse Z-transform using contour integration - Residue theorem, Power series expansion and partial fraction expansion. Relationship between Z-transform, Fourier transform and Laplace transform. Computation of impulse response, total response (Zero state and Zero input response) & Transfer function using Z-Transform. Stability of discrete-time LTI System."}}]}]}