{"ETEN311":[{"paperTitle":"Water Supply and Sewage System","paperCredits":4,"paperUnits":[{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Water  Requirements","unitDetails":"Need to protect water supplies, Various types of water demands, Factors affecting consumption of water, variations in demand, Per capita demand, Total requirements of water for a town or a city, Coincident draft, Effect of variations in demand on the design capacities of different components of a water supply scheme, Design periods, Population forecasting methods, Water Quality standards for municipal or domestic supplies, Water quality standards for industrial supplies. Classification of sources of water, Surface sources: Reservoir planning, Storage capacity and yield, Zones of underground water, Movement of ground water and its velocity, Groundwater yield, Specific yield and specific retention, Aquifers and their types, Locating a well, Construction of well, Tube wells and Rainey wells."}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Water lifting arrangement, Source selection in hilly and rural areas","unitDetails":"Appropriate treatment technology for rural water supplies. Intakes: Factors governing the location of intakes, Types of intakes including simple submerged intakes, Wet and dry intake towers. Conduits: Gravity conduits such as canals, Flumes, Aqueducts and pressure conduits, pipe materials and their joints, Corrosion of metal pipes, Laying of pipes and pipe appurtenances such as gate valves, Air valves, Blow off valves, Pressure relief valves, Check valves, Manholes, Insulation joints, Anchorages etc. Testing of pipe lines, Head loss through pipes and pipe fittings, Disinfection of pipelines before use."}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Distribution system planning","unitDetails":"Types of distribution reservoirs including surface reservoirs and elevated reservoirs, Types of fire hydrants and their requirements, Types of water meters and their requirements Wastage of water in distribution system. Materials for service pipes, Service connection. Principles, Design, Concepts and Suitability of Disinfection Types of sewage and types of sewerage systems, Components of sewerage system, Future forecasts and estimating design sewage discharge. Estimating the peak runoff."}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Provision of free board in sewers and Storm water drains ","unitDetails":"Hydraulic formulas for determining flow velocities in sewers and drains, Maximum and minimum velocities to be generated in sewers. Shapes of sewer pipes, Forces acting on sewer pipes, Sewer materials, Laying and testing of sewer pipes. Sewer Appurtenances: Man holes, Drop man holes, Lamp holes, Clean outs, Street inlets, Called gullies, Catch basins, Flushing tanks, Grease and oil traps, Inverted siphons, Storm water regulators. Maintenance, Cleaning and Ventilation of sewers. Types of pumps and pumping stations for water supply and Sewerage system, Factors affecting the selection of particular type of a pump, Head power and efficiency of pumps, Economic diameter of pumping mains. Plumbing systems, Sewerage plans for building and design of sewer, Sanitary fittings and other accessories. Wastewater disposal into rivers, lake and estuaries."}}]}]}