{"ETHS402":[{"paperTitle":"Human Values and Professional Ethics-II","paperCredits":3,"paperUnits":[{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Appraisal of Human Values and Professional Ethics","unitDetails":"Appraisal of Human Values and Professional Ethics: Review of Universal Human Values: Truth, Love, Peace, Right conduct, Non violence, Justice and Responsibility. Living in harmony with ‘SELF’, Family, Society and Nature. Indian pluralism - the way of life of Islam, Buddhism, Christianity, Jainism, Sikhism and Hinduism, Greek - Roman and Chinese cultural values. Sensitization of Impact of Modern Education and Media on Values: a) Impact of Science and Technology b) Effects of Printed Media and Television on Values c) Effects of computer aided media on Values (Internet, e-mail, Chat etc.) d) Role of teacher in the preservation of tradition and culture. e) Role of family, tradition & community prayers in value development. Review of Professional Ethics: Accountability, Collegiality, Royalty, Responsibility and Ethics Living. Engineer as a role model for civil society, Living in harmony with ‘NATURE’, Four orders of living, their intercorrectness, Holistic technology (eco-friendly and sustainable technology)."}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Engineers responsibility for safety","unitDetails":"Engineers responsibility for safety: Safety and Risks, Risk and Cost, Risk benefit analysis, testing methods for safety. Engineer’s Responsibility for Safety Social and Value dimensions of Technology - Technology Pessimism – The Perils of Technological Optimism – The Promise of Technology – Computer Technology Privacy Some Case Studies: Case Studies, BHOPAL Gas Tragedy, Nuclear Power Plant Disasters, Space Shuttle Challenger , Three Mile Island Accident, etc"}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Globalization and MNCs","unitDetails":"Globalization and MNCs: International Trade, Issues, Case Studies: Kelleg’s, Satyam, Infosys Foundation, TATA Group of Companies Business Ethics: Corporate Governance, Finance and Accounting, IPR. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): Definition, Concept, ISO, CSR. Environmental Ethics: Sustainable Development, Eco-System, Ozone depletion, Pollution. Computer Ethics: Cyber Crimes, Data Stealing, Hacking, Embezzlement"}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Engineers Responsibilities and Rights and Ethical Codes","unitDetails":"Engineers Responsibilities and Rights and Ethical Codes: Collegiality and loyalty, Conflict of interests, confidentiality, occupational crimes, professional rights, responsibilities. To boost industrial production with excellent quality and efficiency, To enhance national economy, To boost team spirit, Work Culture and feeling of job satisfaction, National integration, Examples of some illustrious professionals. Need for Ethical Codes, Study of some sample codes such as institution of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Computer Society of India etc., Ethical Audit. Development and implementation of Codes: Oath to be taken by Engineering graduates and its importance**,"}}]}]}