{"ETME312":[{"paperTitle":"Metrology","paperCredits":3,"paperUnits":[{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Principles of measurement","unitDetails":"Definition of Metrology, difference between precision and accuracy. Sources of errors: Controllable and Random Errors, Effects of Environment and Temperature, Effects of support, alignment errors, application of Least Square principles, errors in measurement of a quality which is function of other variables. Introduction to Coordinate Measuring Machine (CMM). Length Standards: Line standards, end standards and wavelength standards, transfer from line standards to end standards. Numerical based on line standards. Slip gauges – its use and care, methods of building different heights using different sets of slip gauges. Limits, fits and Tolerances: Various definitions, IS919-1963, different types of fits and methods to provide these fits. Numerical to calculate the limits, fits and tolerances as per IS 919-1963. ISO system of limits and fits; Gauges and its types, limit gauges – plug and ring gauges. Gauge Design – Taylor’s Principle, wear allowance on gauges. Different methods of giving tolerances on gauges, Numericals."}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Comparators","unitDetails":"Mechanical Comparators: Johanson Mikrokator and Sigma Mechanical Comparator. Mechanicaloptical comparator. Principles of Electrical and electronic comparators. Pneumatic comparators – advantages, systems of Pneumatic gauging:- Flow type and back pressure type, Principle of working of back pressure gauges, different type of sensitivities and overall magnification, Solex Pneumatic gauges and differential comparators. Numericals based on pneumatic comparators. Angular Measurement: Sine Bar – different types of sine bars, use of sine bars in conjunction with slip gauges, precautions and calibration of sine bars. Use of angle gauges, spirit level, errors in use of sine bars. Numericals. Circular Division: dividing head and circular tables, circular division by precision Polygons. Caliper Principle, Calibration of polygons. Numerical based on circular division."}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Straightness and Flatness","unitDetails":"Definition of Straightness and Flatness error. Numericals based on determination of straightness error of straight edge with the help of spirit level and auto collimator. Numericals based on determination of flatness error of a surface plate with the help of spirit level or auto collimator. Surface texture, different types of irregularities, standard measures for assessment and measurement of surface finish. Screw Thread Measurement: Errors in threads, Measurement of elements of screw threads –major dia, minor dia, pitch, flank angle and effective diameter (Two and three wire methods). Effect of errors in pitch and flank angles and its mathematical derivation. Numericals. Gear Measurement: Measurement of tooth thickness – Gear tooth vernier caliper, Constant chord method, base tangent method and derivation of mathematical formulae for each method. Test plug method for checking pitch diameter and tooth spacing. Measurement of Gear Pitch, Parkinson Gear Tester, Numericals."}},{"unit":{"unitTitle":"Machine Tool Alignment","unitDetails":"Machine tool tests and alignment tests on lathe. Alignment tests on milling machine. Alignment tests on a radial drilling machine. Interferometry: Principle of measurement, Interferometry applied to flatness testing, surface contour tests, optical flats, testing of parallelism of a surface with the help of optical flat. Quantitative estimate of error in parallelism, Flatness Interferometer NPL-Gauge length interferometer for checking the error in slip gauges. Numericals based on Interferometry.Introduction to Seismic Transducers - Displacement and acceleration measurement, Pressure measurement - Bourdon pressure gauge, bulk modulus gauge, pirani gauge."}}]}]}